Sorting as a term can give a variety of ideas, and Sorting machine as another term, can give a whole new plan. It's all based on the problem seen and observed that guide one to get solve it with a number of ways. We saw the need of implementation of sorting machine that can sort match stick boxes based on its shape and color. There were different possible solutions for the observed problem, and we came up with permutations and combinations of different mechanisms, we now finally focus on the tool called multi-directional conveyor as our main sorting part. Along with this, we have a typical conveyor belt and few containers for sorting.

Multi directional Conveyor, as the name itself suggests, is a tool, that can convey objects in various directions. There are ample no. of shafts aligned on a plane, in x and y directions. Though the wheels on the shafts are of different radius, when looked laterally, they all make a simple plane, a flat surface. A set of shafts parallel to each other are controlled by 1 DC Motor, using flat rubber bands, and for free rotation, ball bearing can be used. The height of the Multi Directional Conveyor is to be noted because when the object moved in diff direction, it should not face an obstacle at the end. The other parts are typical conveyor belt which has a color sensor mounted above and an ir sensor also. and Boxes also are considered to be a part. The working procedure is as follows: The object will be placed on the conveyor belt. The object will move with the belt till the ir sensor detects it. Color sensor detects the color and sends the signal. Object will come on the Multi directional conveyor now and shafts in one alignment send the objects forward till the barrier which allows only cuboidal boxes. The sorting based on the shape is done. Based on the color detected, the dc motor in one way, rotates either in clockwise direction or in anti clockwise direction, which will the convey the objects into their respective compartment.
This machine can be implemented in the larger scale which can be manufactured with a lot of accuracy. These are more covinient in handling and also can be accurate to a larger extent. 

